---
title: 'Hello GitHub Pages'
date: 2022-06-01
permalink: /posts/2022/06/hello-github-pages/
tags:
  - hello
  - GitHub Pages
---

**Choose Language:** [Traditional Chinese](https://marc0cheung.github.io/posts/2022/06/hello-github-pages-zhHK/) / English

I've been thinking about using GitHub Pages as a blog for a long time. However, I've put it on hold for a number of reasons, such as not having time to write and not knowing what to post. After all, I'm not a huge 'techie' and I don't write a lot of technical articles. Writing about politics? Writing about social events? No, after all, this GitHub account is for "looking for a proper job" and who knows if the other person is a {  } or a {  } ? What's even worse is that GitHub has an commit history feature, which means that every change is recorded in the GitHub account, so unless you "delete the repository and run away", everyone else can see the record. This made me feel a little uncomfortable as a privacy conscious person.

Later, I bought my own server and tried to use WordPress to build my own blog and my own server, so that there would be no auditing, no snooping and almost total control. But when the server expired, I had no incentive to renew it because it's so hard to maintain a server of my own.

Then came Telegram, where the Channel service, along with Telegraph, was actually a way to make your own blog. But it is difficult to find people to follow your Telegram Channel other than your close friends, and in the process of sharing, your real identity is more or less tied up in the Channel, so the idea of speaking your mind is put on hold. If there is a better way to balance **convenience of publication** with **privacy** and **anonymity**, then perhaps we can consider posting the **opinion** section on the Internet.

So, what can be found on this blog? Some easily accessible resources to share, a record of my technical learning experience, my English learning experience, and some of the photos I've taken (if I can find a reliable, secure, non-critical image storage service).

I hope you enjoy reading my blog.

<br>

<br>

Marco Cheung

1st June, 2022